Hackistan is a tribe of pioneers on a New Land, building smart and sustainable solutions with impact for our Common future.
 
Humanity is facing multiple challenges. Paradoxically, all resources which could help us overcome these challenge do exist. We catalyze talents, projects, capital, tools and infrastructures efficiently in a sprouting environment towards impactful solutions. Hackistan is a bet, an experiment with a strong purpose: a new land where talented professionals and impactful projects meet within a trust-based framework to build a regenerative society. Altogether, we have a unique opportunity to try out a whole radically-new model for entrepreneurship where multidisciplinary collaboration, fairness and collective intelligence empower people and projects towards value and impact. 
 
Keep in mind Hackistan is a flexible and open network. All you are about to read is constantly improved by pioneering citizens within an open, innovative and transparent governance framework.
 
Find and assemble solvers tackling global challenges
We are a global and creative community of passionated people aligned around a strong vision. We inspire and empower each other to create a better and more sustainable world. We believe in multidisciplinary emulation, engaging a diversity of talented individuals. We are scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs, business analysts, webdevelopers, philosophers, artists, architecture, geneticist, communication experts,  or lawyers. We are both thinkers and doers. Altruism and kindness are our currency. Aware and alive, we are our own’s faith masters and we connect with our brothers with trust and hunger.
 
Surround them with the best human, digital and financial resources
We are neither an incubator, nor an accelerator. As a trusted third-party and as a collective, we are a one-stop source providing unfair advantages, resources and support to disruptive and impactful projects.
 
·  Create a strong and trust-based connexion space for immensely talented individuals
·  Crowdsource skills and talents within an open-value network;
·  Take advantage of collective intelligence both for ideation and first-customer purposes;
·  Experiment new investment tools that enable easy collaboration and fair distribution of generated value.,
·  Provide a network of customized infrastructures (e.g. coworking, incubators, fablabs, biohackerspaces, labs, warehouses) to avoid redundant costly investments by simply  optimizing the use of what is  already out there
·  Give access to kick-ass administrative and IT tools
·  Benefit from mutualized services (e.g. accountability, communication, webdesign)
 
Collectively design a sprouting and vertuous innovation ecosystem
We want to embody what we believe in, and experiment ourselves what we feel might enhance individual’s and project’s resilience.
·  Explore a new open-governance: We implement co-creation through an horizontal system, true democracy and transparency, with the help of digital tools and cutting-edge management frameworks.
·  Try out a new value distribution framework: By launching a common-reserve, we want to hijack the created value and let it be collectively reallocated, in a fair and transparent way, towards meaningful projects.
 

Hack (y)our way through
As a salvation strategy, we aim at lifting up as much barriers as possible, freeing people from fictive silos. These barriers, by separating disciplines, cities are  dividing people and resources and end up breaking the innovation process. To boost impact, we need to unleash everyone’s potential and rethink the way projects and missions are led and supported.

Free technology
Technological solutions are meant to be distributed at a global scale. Hackistanis explore and leverage opensource and decentralized techniques at the core of their projects.
 
Hijack the value
Through a strong DNA and vision, we co-engineer a grassroots and self-sustainable model that reinforces and boosts regenerative solutions. All the agents from the collective keep the common goal in mind and translate it into action. We collectively experiment a new investment system in which a meaningful relationship between skills, resources, time and money is installed.
 
Strive for efficiency
We leverage our respective networks and resources for the sake of the collective striving. At the same time, we exploit every under-used resources from trusted partners (companies, universities, NGO and private sector)
 
Use Nature as mentor
Nature has been innovating for billions of years. By observing, understanding and mimicking its instructions, we try to place the most adaptive strategies at the core of both our collective organization, our individual development as well as bringing the projects to be inspired by the genius of Nature, aiming
at efficiency and design.
