CODE OF CONDUCT
v0.1
Last update: 15th of June 2016

INTRODUCTION

The values of Hackistan make us a unique organization. They give Hackistan citizens rights as well as responsibilities. In order to really live the values, we need to incorporate them into everything we do. It is not always easy, but the Code of Conduct is there to help guide us in living these values. The values are ours only if we step up to the challenge and make them work, together.

The values and related ground rules are not fixed, they are openly discussed and amended so that they can remain as faithful a reflection of what people in the organization live and believe in. 


PART 1: VALUES

Emancipated individuals with an impactful intention. 
Our collective aims at maximizing social and environmental impact. When like-minded people connect and embrace a common future, powerful things happen

Within a strong and trust-based Family
All Hackistani come as they are, in their diversity,  with a strong commitment and ruthless kindness. We share, leverage and struggle, together, with our differences. Alike in our own Family, we value altruism, empathy, trust and care. We reinforce the human connexions for individual and collective resilience.

Experimenting with democracy and transparency
Anyone should be able to speak up, get involved and have his voice heard. Horizontality and participatory aspects are framed for efficiency. We are an ever-mutating organism, using flexibility to adapt to both external and internal disturbances. The path is marked out for newcomers.


That value leadership, humility and courage
We believe in dreaming leaders that dare to break the rules. Get it done : experiment, execute and be agile. Take the lead, fail, learn and go ahead! Pride and success are not exclusive of humility, great leaders produce more leaders.

With uttermost respect and fairness
We will need everyone to explore the resources and opportunities of the new world. Collaboration can only work with respect and fairness. We believe in meritocracy : through a fair value distribution system, all contributors are rewarded in proportion to their contribution to the global value.

PART 2: GROUND RULES

Objective of defining ground rules
We believe that translating our values into explicit ground rules of (un)acceptable behaviors will foster a safe environment in which members of the collective can expressthemselves truly, conduct honest discussions, liberate their full potential, experiment, make mistakes, and in which the dignity and worth of each individual is being respected.
Responsibility
Accepting the responsibility for yourhis/her behavior: choosing what he/she wants to express and share while taking his/her limitations into account, expressing his/her needs, formulating demands, asking questions, making propositions and expressing objections.
Taking the limitations of others into account.
Taking the responsibility to challenge others when their behavior threatens the safety of the environment.
Goodwill for one self, other members and the collective
Accepting and promoting many different viewpoints; accepting that people have their own perspectives on reality -- one person does not have the whole view.
Appreciating the positive side of chaos, which leads to fresh and creative ideas; increasing tolerance for situations that have no clear-cut solutions.
Thinking "both/and" rather than "either/or".
Active listening and speaking
Respecting others when they are talking; not interrupting.
Speaking from your own experience instead of generalizing ("I" instead of "they," "we," and "you").
Not being afraid to respectfully challenge one another by asking questions, but refraining from personal attacks -- focusing on ideas.
Instead of invalidating somebody else's story with own spin on her or his experience, sharing own story and experience.
The goal is not to agree -- it is to gain a deeper understanding.
Being conscious of body language and nonverbal responses -- they can be as disrespectful as words.
Confidentiality
Because confidentiality is essential, we expect that each member will respect and maintain the confidentiality linked to personal, difficult and problematic situations.
Respecting the timing
Respecting the timing of meetings (begin and end time)
Respecting the time assigned to tasks; warning in advance if this is not possible and asking for help if necessary.
