Governance System @ Hackistan
v0.1


Objectives of this document

Organizing the organic

This document is a first attempt to organize the organic. It is due to evolve together with the citizens of Hackistan.

Reason-why 
 
Three main reasons why we use a self-organizing and decentralized governance system:

Hackistan was created based on the needs of individual talents and project holders. It is a ecosystem created, owned and managed by its users. As our needs evolve, Hackistan must evolve as well. Therefore, listening to the evolving needs of our members is key. Listening to the evolutionary purpose of Hackistan.
All contributors are meant to also become shareholders. This way, the value created is democratically redistributed both fairly and transparently. Sharing the decision-making power and roles allocation among all the users. We believe that we will end up more agile, hence more powerful.
Finally, we believe that following self-organizing governance principles will enable us to create a safe and open working environment where we will dare to bring all of who we are, liberating our full potential, creativity, and energy. We want to create a space that supports us in our journey to wholeness. Because we know that our deepest calling in life is to reclaim wholeness, within ourselves and in connection with the outside world (nature and people).

The self-organizing and decentralized governance principles
Iteration

Organizational structure

At its heart, Hackistan is nothing more than a group of people and the relationships between them. This part explains how those relationships are being structured according to the degree of desired involvement in the collective: how people join the collective and how they are excluded; what is expected from them and what are the benefits of joining Hackistan.


A common misconception about self-management is that everyone is "equal" and should have equal say in decisions. 


Design

<illustration>


(A) Pilgrims

Pilgrims are the individuals that gravitate around Hackistan. They want to stay in the know with a trust-based and like-minded community. There is no joining process. However, we ask our fellows to fill in the form to get their Visa. Fellows can take part in our open events.

Hackistan Visa
When asking for a Visa, fellows fill in a form and share the following pieces of information. These informations are uploaded on a Kumu map (a web-based data visualization tool for tracking and visualizing relationships). Thanks to the Kumu, all fellows and citizens can see each other’s profiles and skills in a simple way. By doing this, freelancers, artists, designers, entrepreneurs and organizations can contact each other to collaborate and form teams for specific missions. This help any newcomer or people looking for something specific to easily navigate throughout the ecosystem and find the best resources at the right moment.

Communication channels
Member of our Facebook group
Newsletter
Open events

(B) Citizens


Benefits/Rights
The collective exists to help each citizen succeed in maximizing its positive social and environmental impact. On the one hand, citizens who are individual talents can find interesting and impact-based missions and receive equity or money as a fair function of their duty work. On the other hand, project leaders get access to a pool of skilled talents as well as an array of helpful resources (digital toolbox, access to infrastructures, impact investing, education,…). All citizens form a trust-based and like-minded community and they participate to our community events to get to know each other, exchange ideas and support each other.

Expectations/Duties
A citizen is expected to contribute to the collective and participate on our communications channels and in group decisions. Participating in group decisions doesn’t mean that all citizens decide for everything. It means that citizens have a say. They are expected to share their opinion during consultation processes and – when drawn to vote for a decision – to inquire about the context in order to make a wise decision fpr the collective/purpose. Citizens are also expected to attend citizen’s events and working groups as much as they can (while being right/juste avec eux-mêmes).
They freely give their time to help other citizens and actively help build Hackistan.
Sometimes individuals need to focus intensely on a single project, but overall we expect citizens to make the effort to engage with the wider group.

Comms Channels
Slack – used for day-to-day flow of information
Loomio – used for decisions
Community events
Internal newsletter/blog?

Joining Process
Any person who wants to join Hackistan as a citizen has to find two Hackistani (it can be any citizen) who will support its application. He has to fill in an online form inquiring about its motivations for joining Hackistan. Finally, he has to approve the Code of Conduct and the leaving process in force when starting the joining process. He is then added to our shared online platforms and is invited to our community events. It is worth noting that any person entering the joining process has the same rights and duties as any other citizen, regardless of seniority or position. (cfr. principle of equivalence)
He has 3 months to evaluate the collective, after which he is asked if he wants to opt in to stay.
each new Citizen is always a good reason to party!

Leaving Process
When a citizen asks to be removed – If a citizen wishes to leave Hackistan – be it during or at the end of the calendar year – he has to notify his decision to the collective by publishing a Leaving Letter on Slack. This open letter makes it possible for the citizen to express the reasons of his decision and for the collective to understand it.
When a citizen asks for another citizen to be removed – We advise to first try to solve a problem peer-to-peer.

(C) Citizens who are politically involved 
Citizens that are politically involved are the citizens who act as stewards of the collective. They actively contribute to the building of Hackistan.
Expectations
We expect our politically involved citizens to uphold the Hackistan values (link to document) and actively protect and nurture the collective culture. They collectively make sure we stay true to our purpose, on top of our Wisemen Committe.
Also, they are involved in one or more working groups, hereby actively contributing to the development of Hackistan.
